## View
**View level**: The highest level of abstraction describes only part of the entire database. Even though the logical level uses simpler structures, complexity remains because of the variety of information stored in a large database. Many users of the database system do not need all this information; instead, they need to access only a part of the database. The view level of abstraction exists to simplify their interac- tion with the system. The system may provide many views for the same database. [textbook]

- everything that is possible to express in relational calculus can also be expressed in terms of SQL or the language we use.
- part of ***external schema***, not part of logical schema
- relational algebra and relational calculus comes under **logical level**.
- all the operatinos that can be done in logical level can also be done in view level?
- virtual relations to ensure security
- it is very similar to `CREATE TABLE tablename`.
```SQL
CREATE VIEW faculty AS
    SELECT ID,name,dept.name
    FROM instructor
```
- `faculty` is like a table, but we can't say it is table because `faculty` table doesn't exist. DBMS creates(?) it on the fly when ever required.
- ensure security.
- avoid re-writing frequent queries: ((say we have to join 2 huge tables and access only specific part. if we create views of absolutely necessary parts of each table, it'll be easier.)), for analytics.
- ?Materialized Views [140 Chapter 4 Intermediate SQL, textbook]
### Operations of views
- modify: insertion/deletion
  - automatically **add NULL to missing attributes** in view while adding to the actual table (in the logical level). If not null constraint is there, it gets rejected.
  - say there's a view without primary key, and an insertion comes. It won't be successful. DBMS **rejects** such insertions. DBMS also rejects if any of the involved tables doesn't allow that insertion, say due to integrity constraints.
- Restrictions on ins/del
  - view on single relation.
  - selection on attributes only on base relation (no aggregated attribute).
  - attribute not listed in view should allow NULL value in base relation.
- create view with check condition
- modifying db using trigger to handle view insertion/deletion
## Authorisation and Rules
- enable access to db
- privilege list
  - read : select
  - insert : insert
  - upd : update
  - del : delete
- type of actions: grant or revoke
```SQL
grant/revoke <privilege list>
on <rel/view>
to/from <users/roles>
```
- a (granted) user can pass auth to other users

One lab class for `Authorisation and Rules`.

