# Relational algrebra
* how to access the data from the database
* operations
  * selection, projection, difference, union, product.
* before writing sql, we try to find some foundation ~ which we get from relAlgebra
* input : relation(s)
* output : relation
* relational algebra gives bounds, time complexity, etc.

Operations in Relational Algebra
---

### 1. Selection
- $\sigma$ select **tuples** that satisfy a given predicate
- predicate allow comparisons using $=$, $\neq$ (in SQL, `<>`), $\lt$, $\gt$,$\le$,$\ge$
- eg. $\sigma_{\text{building}=\text{Taylor}}$
- Predicate allow comparisons btw attributes 
- eg. $\sigma_{\text{building}=\text{Taylor}} (\text{department})$
- Used for `filtering`.
### 2. Projection
- $\pi$ or $\Pi$ extract **column** of a relation
- eg. $\Pi_{\text{building}} (\text{department})$
  - in relational algebra, this returns column of ***distinct values*** from column `building` of `department`.
  - in SQL, we get with duplicates
- can combine operators $\Pi (\sigma(.))$
- used to get `view of one particular (domain?)`
- $\Pi_{\text{building, dept\_name}} (\text{department})$ gives a single relation of 2 columns.

In SQL, `SELECT` operation handles both $\sigma$ and $\Pi$.

### 3. Cartesian/Cross Product
- $\times$ combines tuples/records from multiple relations
- $R \times S \rightarrow$ concatination of $a\in R$ ***and*** $b\in S$.
- In SQL `CROSS JOIN` operation handles this. 
  - eg. `SELECT * FROM instructor CROSS JOIN teaches`.
  
### 4. Rename
- $\rho$ provide name to an expression $\rightarrow \rho_x(E)$
- after rename, both new and old name can be used to access.
- In SQL `AS` operation handles this. 


**Q**. Find the ID and name of those instructors who earn more than the instructor whose ID is 12121.

1.find salary of id 12121. := 90000
```SQL
    SELECT salary FROM instructor WHERE id=12121
```
2.compare this 90000 with every salary to get result
```SQL
    SELECT id,name FROM instructor WHERE salary >= (^^^)
```