## Data Models
- data description, relationship, semantics, consistency constraint
- how exactly is the table stored
- conceptual data model
  - entity-relationship model (imp)
    - just think about what are the entities (objects), and how those objects will interact.
  - relational data model (imp)
  - .for project
  - .for project
  - hierarchical (out dated)
    - pictorical model
    - present certain kind of hierarchy within data
    - Drawback: follow tree structure
      - can't have any node with multiple parents 
      - if that property is allowed, the whole graph structure gets very complicated. Purpose of DBMS for fast efficient access is defeated.

                        U              university         
                d1     d2     d3       departments
            c1     c2 c3 c4   ...      courses
            s1 s2 s3 ...               students    
  - network (out dated)
  
### Entity-Relationship model
- entity is represented as a RECTANGULAR BOX. eg. customer, account
- what are the info (attributes) about that entity we like to store? Attributes are represented in OVAL BOX.
  - eg. if building is entity, its attributes can be name, no. of rooms, address. But can not be room (that's an object).
  - similarly entities can be students, faculty, departments, course.
- relationship can be between two entities. Relationship is represented in DIAMOND BOX $\diamond$.
- relationship can be many to one. faculty and department can *offer* course.
- **Composite Attribute** : one attribute is relationed with two other attributes. like (name) -> (firstname) and (lastname).
- If queries come with firstname, having firstname as an attribute is better.
- **Multivalued Attribute** : one particular cell having multiple values. eg ph1,ph2. 998888,91941 in a single cell. Try to avoid multivalued attribute, as we can not directly access sub information of a multivalued attribute.
- **Derived Attribute** : when we design our database, we don't put that, But later on we can derive it. eg (age) has a dependency on (DoB). (age) can be derived, if needed later, from (DoB).
- **Entity Set** : multiple associated entities together. everything have same attributes. eg Student above can be entity set.
- **Weak Entity** : such an entity exist only because of some other entity. eg (slide) loan entity is a weak entity because it exist only if account is there.