### Advantage of DB over file systems
1. DB has data description and data relation
     * Description : type of subject?
     * Can show the user just the structure of table, by hiding actual data
2. Redundancy and inconsistancy
     * Say if we don't have some data, then the next val be inconsistant in file sys based implementation
     * If we have multiple tables, if we update in one table, it won't get updated in other tables (file sys is hierarchical)
       * In relDB we can specify that this column is always coming from that table
       * "Foreign key"?
-------
-------
1. Data Integrity
   * Consistency 
     * Row of table 1 may be related to some other row of some other table. It should be such that each value in the row of table 1 should occur in the other row of the other table.
     * Can be within table also (?)
2. Data Access
   * Complete data is accessible to any user who has access to that table.
   * eg. Moodle. It is single table only. Depending on what kind of user, certain part of table (row/col) is accessible. Student can access only own ans.
   * Disadv: Change in schema (access level?) is not easily possible. Although it is possible to re create table with new schema. -Flexibility +Security
3. Data Abstraction
   1. External Schema
       * View level
       * Some user may have only certain view.
       * Instructor level, student level, ta level.
   2. Conceptual Schema
       * Logical level
       * View of those who create moodle -- whole table accessible
   3. Internal Schema
       * Physical level
       * Finally it is stored in disc only.
       * In disc which sector, how to manage the storage in physical level.
       * Finally data is accessed from disc. So should be very careful in this level.
4. Concurrent Access
    * Need lock
    * But can provide much granularity in DB
5. Recovery
    * Multiple copies
    * Certain protocol
  
* Architecture of DBMS (slide)