* Key attributes distinguish 2 different rows in table.
* It is better to separate out part of table which is usually NULL. like loan 
  * the very basic statistics (like # people, range of something, ...) change very often if some person take loan (as the main table changes). Also these statistics are not accurate.
  * It is possible that same person take multiple loan. So key attribute should not be just customer ID. Loan ID should also be there
  * Lot of optimisation is done (to be covered later : design of indices)
* Relationship ~ show how two particular entities are related in ER diagram.
  * See slide 4
  * The relation is `hold` btw `Customer` and `account`. The key attrs are (Customer)`id` and (account)`number`. The key attribute for the whole table will be both (Customer)`id` and (account)`number`. Because it is many to many relation. If many to many, we do not put arrows.
  * One particular account id can have multiple loan id, but one loan id can have only one account id. this is one to many. We put arrow from `account` to `loan` (check).

  * Descriptive Attribute:: eg `date of enrollment` in table where other attributes are `student`, `course`. This is many cases become the key attribute. It is not related to either `student` or `course`.
  * Relationship set
    * Total vs Partial
      * total : every student has to have at least one association with atleast one course ID. could be one to many/many to one
      * Partial : some association dropped. could be one to many/many to one 