## Compiler 
[slides](../../../Downloads/Introduction.pdf)
- A **compiler** is a program that can read a program in one language (source lang) and translate it into an equivalent program in another language (target code).
  - *C Compiler*: Source program converted to executable code.
  - Role - report any error during translation process.
    - syntax error (`;` missing), semantic error (type matching?), linker error, etc.
  - loader

### Stages of compilation
- **Lexical Analysis**: Read the stream of characters in `source language` and groups the characters to meaningful sequences called ***lexeme***.
  - fundamental theory : every NFA has an equivalent DFA
  - tool used - *lex*.
    - `input.l` $\rightarrow_{lex}$ generates C file $\rightarrow_{gcc}$ executable
- **Syntax Analysis (Parsing)** - use the tokens produced by the lexical analyzer to create a **tree-like intermediate representation** called ***syntax tree***.
  - Each interior node of a syntax tree represents an operation and the children of the node represent the arguments of the operation.
- **Semantic Analysis**: type checking, The language specification may permit some type conversions.
  - if the input code is for sorting, the output code must also do the same, logic should be preserved.
- Intermediate Code Generation: Syntax tree, three address code, quadraple, Static Single Assignment (SSA) form etc.
- Machine Independent Code Optimization: Improve the Intermediate code.
  - optimisations like  computation inside loop taken outside, if correctness is preseved.
- Code Generation: Covert intermediate code into target language
- Symbol Table: Record variables names used in the programming languages and it’s properties.
  - num fields, structure, vector, ...?

### Bootstrapping
- say new arch x335 came.
- requirement : compiler that runs on x335 and generates code for x335.
- Step 1 : Write a C compiler in C that produces code (compiled code - executable - binary) for x335.
- Compile this C compiler using `gcc-x86`
  - We get a C compiler `gcc-x86-x335` that runs on x86 and emits x335 code
- Compile the C compiler using `gcc-x86-x335`
  - we get an executable that is the compiler that runs on x335


------

next class
see/practice lex and yacc

------